# Projects
Hall of Fame:  My goal for this project was to build two machine learning models in Python (one for hitters, and one for pitchers) with features based exclusively on traditional baseball statistics that would do a better job of predicting who the Baseball Writers' Association of America would elect to the National Baseball Hall of Fame than similar models built solely on advanced statistics.  I succeeded in doing this using Random Forest (achieving cross-validation and testing accuracies above 95% for my hitting model and above 97% for my pitching model, with the caveat that each dataset is skewed with about 88% non-Hall of Famers vs. 12% Hall of Famers), and the entire process is illustrated in the attached Python notebook.

Player Development:  My goal for this project was to determine (and visualize) which statistics early in a player's career are predictors of future success (using Excel and Tableau).  The step-by-step explanation of the project is contained in the Microsoft Word document, with the corresponding Excel tables and PowerPoint presentation also attached (the Tableau files could not be posted on Github, but the most relevant ones are contained in the presentation, and I'm happy to send the full files to anyone who would like to see them).

Iowa Liquor Sales:  This project involved querying a database of Iowa liquor sales using SQL.  In this exercise, I am pitching an idea for a marketing campaign to my boss based on an analysis of which liquor types generate more revenue, what the breakdown is by county (and county size) to see where these liquor types might have the most growth opportunity, what times of year these liquor types sell best, and finally looking for the most successful vendors to see who we might partner with.  The overall plan is summarized in the "bossemail" Word document, the PowerPoint is the final presentation of the plan, and the full step-by-step breakdown and list of SQL queries is contained in the "projectqueries" text file.
